                            SoftLoad
                            ========

On computers where RISC OS boots from a copy held in permanent
memory (Risc PC, Iyonix, Titanium, Kinetic Risc PC, or
A7000/A7000+) another ROM version may be temporarily loaded
from file into RAM. This is termed 'softloading'.

This can be useful to try out a ROM before it is committed to
permanent memory, or for any other testing.

How to use
----------
If SoftLoad exists in !Boot.Resources its !Run is executed very
early at boot, by the BootRun obey file in !Boot.Utils.

When run, if the current ROM matches the last softloaded
ROM, SoftLoad ends, unless -all specified (see below).

Then SoftLoad looks for any files in its directory with a
filetype of &FE5 (EPROM) then:
* If none exist, SoftLoad ends
* If none are newer than the current ROM, SoftLoad will also
  end unless -all is specified
* If there are some ROM files, the current ROM version and date
  will be shown, followed by the versions, dates and filenames
  of the softloadable ROMs, listed in date sequence

The current ROM, or the last ROM softloaded, will be marked
by ==> and highlighted. This selection can be changed by
using the cursor Up/Down keys.

Press Escape to avoid any softload and continue with the
current ROM.

Press Return or Space to softload the selected ROM immediately,
or after 10 seconds of inactivity it will be softloaded
automatically.

Technical Details
-----------------
Any errors found will be listed on the screen, but will
allow the boot process to continue without any softload.

Softload requires RISC OS v3.50 or later, otherwise it will
just end with an error message.

The ROM filenames can be any valid filename.

There is a maximum of 100 ROM files.
Any more will be listed, but not available for softload.

The softload ROMs can be earlier or later than the one in
permanent memory, so you can revert to an older version if
you require. (See -all below)

For development ROMs after 5.14 the version date displayed
should be the same as *fx0 or RISC OS Menu -> Info.
However, for compressed ROMs that is not available, eg Iyonix,
so then the date will be taken from the ROM file timestamp.

SoftLoad can be run from the desktop, but beware that
all running applications, and indeed RISC OS itself, will be
forcibly immediately terminated with no chance to save any
data or do any tidying up.

Additional translations can be added to the SoftLoad
directory, with a filename of Message<n> where n is the
territory number being used. The 'Messages' file will be
used as a default, if there is no territory specific copy.

If the last boot was a softloaded ROM, it will be saved in
Choices:SoftLoad as the default to use for the next boot.
Deleting the choices will revert the default to the initial
ROM.

For copy protection reasons, RISC OS 4.02 cannot be softloaded.

Advanced Use
------------
There are some parameters which can be added to the Run command
in !Boot.Resources.SoftLoad.!Run:

 -test  Displays the softload command rather than executing it.

 -all   Displays all softloadable ROMs, even if current ROM is
        already softloaded.
        ROMs older than the current ROM version are included,
        so any version can be softloaded with care.
